docs/src/main/asciidoc/_configprops.adoc, before:

|===
|Name | Default | Description

|spring.cloud.aws.cloudwatch.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.cloudwatch.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.cloudwatch.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.access-key |  | The access key to be used with a static provider.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.instance-profile | `+++false+++` | Configures an instance profile credentials provider with no further configuration.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.profile.name |  | Profile name.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.profile.path |  | Profile file path.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.secret-key |  | The secret key to be used with a static provider.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.async-credentials-update | `+++false+++` | Enables provider to asynchronously fetch credentials in the background. Defaults to synchronous blocking if not specified otherwise.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.role-arn |  | ARN of IAM role associated with STS. If not provided this will be read from {@link software.amazon.awssdk.core.SdkSystemSetting}.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.role-session-name |  | Role session name that will be used by credentials provider. By default this is read from {@link software.amazon.awssdk.core.SdkSystemSetting}.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.web-identity-token-file |  | Absolute path to the web identity token file that will be used by credentials provider. By default this will be read from {@link software.amazon.awssdk.core.SdkSystemSetting}.
|spring.cloud.aws.defaults-mode |  | Sets the {@link DefaultsMode} that will be used to determine how certain default configuration options are resolved in the SDK. <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/developer/introducing-smart-configuration-defaults-in-the-aws-sdk-for-java-v2/">Introducing Smart Configuration Defaults in the AWS SDK for Java v2</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the SDK should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a> If you intend to use dual stack only on specific service, consider configuring dual stack through `spring.cloud.aws.<service-name>.dualstack-enabled` property.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.cluster-update-interval-millis |  | Interval between polling of cluster members for membership changes.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.connect-timeout-millis |  | Connection timeout.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.connection-ttl-millis |  | Connection time to live.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.endpoint-refresh-timeout-millis |  | Timeout for endpoint refresh.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.idle-timeout-millis |  | Timeout for idle connections with the DAX cluster.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.max-concurrency |  | Maximum number of concurrent requests.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.max-pending-connection-acquires |  | Maximum number of pending Connections to acquire.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.read-retries |  | Number of times to retry reads, initial try is not counted.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.request-timeout-millis |  | Request timeout for connections with the DAX cluster.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.skip-host-name-verification |  | Skips hostname verification in url.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.url |  | DAX cluster endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.write-retries |  | Number of times to retry writes, initial try is not counted.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables DynamoDb integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.table-prefix |  | The prefix used to resolve table names.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.table-suffix |  | The suffix used to resolve table names.
|spring.cloud.aws.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint for all auto-configured AWS clients.
|spring.cloud.aws.fips-enabled |  | Configure whether the SDK should use the AWS fips endpoints.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables ParameterStore integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.reload.max-wait-for-restart | `+++2s+++` | If {@link ReloadStrategy#RESTART_CONTEXT} is configured, maximum waiting time for server restart.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.reload.period | `+++1m+++` | Refresh period for {@link PollingAwsPropertySourceChangeDetector}.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.reload.strategy |  | Reload strategy to run when properties change.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.instance-profile | `+++false+++` | Configures an instance profile region provider with no further configuration.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.profile.name |  | Profile name.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.profile.path |  | Profile file path.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.static |  | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.accelerate-mode-enabled |  | Option to enable using the accelerate endpoint when accessing S3. Accelerate endpoints allow faster transfer of objects by using Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.checksum-validation-enabled |  | Option to disable doing a validation of the checksum of an object stored in S3.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.chunked-encoding-enabled |  | Option to enable using chunked encoding when signing the request payload for {@link software.amazon.awssdk.services.s3.model.PutObjectRequest} and {@link software.amazon.awssdk.services.s3.model.UploadPartRequest}.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables S3 Config File import integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.reload.max-wait-for-restart | `+++2s+++` | If {@link ReloadStrategy#RESTART_CONTEXT} is configured, maximum waiting time for server restart.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.reload.period | `+++1m+++` | Refresh period for {@link PollingAwsPropertySourceChangeDetector}.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.reload.strategy |  | Reload strategy to run when properties change.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.cross-region-enabled |  | Enables cross-region bucket access.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.initial-read-buffer-size-in-bytes |  | Configure the starting buffer size the client will use to buffer the parts downloaded from S3. Maintain a larger window to keep up a high download throughput; parts cannot download in parallel unless the window is large enough to hold multiple parts. Maintain a smaller window to limit the amount of data buffered in memory.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.max-concurrency |  | Specifies the maximum number of S3 connections that should be established during transfer.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.minimum-part-size-in-bytes |  | Sets the minimum part size for transfer parts. Decreasing the minimum part size causes multipart transfer to be split into a larger number of smaller parts. Setting this value too low has a negative effect on transfer speeds, causing extra latency and network communication for each part.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.target-throughput-in-gbps |  | The target throughput for transfer requests. Higher value means more S3 connections will be opened. Whether the transfer manager can achieve the configured target throughput depends on various factors such as the network bandwidth of the environment and the configured `max-concurrency`.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables S3 integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.enable-delayed-authentication-mode | `+++false+++` | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.enable-legacy-unauthenticated-modes | `+++false+++` | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.enable-multipart-put-object | `+++false+++` | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.key-id |  | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.path-style-access-enabled |  | Option to enable using path style access for accessing S3 objects instead of DNS style access. DNS style access is preferred as it will result in better load balancing when accessing S3.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.plugin.enable-fallback | `+++false+++` | If set to false if Access Grants does not find/return permissions, S3Client won't try to determine if policies grant access If set to true fallback policies S3/IAM will be evaluated.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.transfer-manager.follow-symbolic-links |  | Specifies whether to follow symbolic links when traversing the file tree in `S3TransferManager#uploadDirectory` operation.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.transfer-manager.max-depth |  | Specifies the maximum number of levels of directories to visit in `S3TransferManager#uploadDirectory` operation.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.use-arn-region-enabled |  | If an S3 resource ARN is passed in as the target of an S3 operation that has a different region to the one the client was configured with, this flag must be set to 'true' to permit the client to make a cross-region call to the region specified in the ARN otherwise an exception will be thrown.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables Secrets Manager integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.reload.max-wait-for-restart | `+++2s+++` | If {@link ReloadStrategy#RESTART_CONTEXT} is configured, maximum waiting time for server restart.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.reload.period | `+++1m+++` | Refresh period for {@link PollingAwsPropertySourceChangeDetector}.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.reload.strategy |  | Reload strategy to run when properties change.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.configuration-set-name |  | Configures configuration set name.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables Simple Email Service integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.from-arn |  | Configures from ARN. Only applies to SendRawEmail operation.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.source-arn |  | Configures source ARN. Used only for sending authorization.
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables SNS integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables SQS integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.max-concurrent-messages |  | The maximum concurrent messages that can be processed simultaneously for each queue. Note that if acknowledgement batching is being used, the actual maximum number of messages inflight might be higher.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.max-messages-per-poll |  | The maximum number of messages to be retrieved in a single poll to SQS.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.poll-timeout |  | The maximum amount of time for a poll to SQS.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.queue-not-found-strategy |  | 
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.region |  | Overrides the default region.

|===

Commit message:

Add autoconfiguration for maxDelayBetweenPolls (#1365)
* SQS: Add autoconfiguration for maxDelayBetweenPolls (#1354)

- Added configuration property to SqsProperties
- Added mapping for SqsContainerOptions.maxDelayBetweenPolls in SqsAutoConfiguration for configuring properties in SqsMessageListenerContainerFactory
- Included the test for new property in SqsAutoConfigurationTest
- Added docs for the new property max-delay-between-polls

Closes #1354

* SQS: Add test assertion for default maxDelayBetweenPolls

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_configprops.adoc, after:

|===
|Name | Default | Description

|spring.cloud.aws.cloudwatch.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.cloudwatch.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.cloudwatch.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.access-key |  | The access key to be used with a static provider.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.instance-profile | `+++false+++` | Configures an instance profile credentials provider with no further configuration.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.profile.name |  | Profile name.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.profile.path |  | Profile file path.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.secret-key |  | The secret key to be used with a static provider.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.async-credentials-update | `+++false+++` | Enables provider to asynchronously fetch credentials in the background. Defaults to synchronous blocking if not specified otherwise.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.role-arn |  | ARN of IAM role associated with STS. If not provided this will be read from {@link software.amazon.awssdk.core.SdkSystemSetting}.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.role-session-name |  | Role session name that will be used by credentials provider. By default this is read from {@link software.amazon.awssdk.core.SdkSystemSetting}.
|spring.cloud.aws.credentials.sts.web-identity-token-file |  | Absolute path to the web identity token file that will be used by credentials provider. By default this will be read from {@link software.amazon.awssdk.core.SdkSystemSetting}.
|spring.cloud.aws.defaults-mode |  | Sets the {@link DefaultsMode} that will be used to determine how certain default configuration options are resolved in the SDK. <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/developer/introducing-smart-configuration-defaults-in-the-aws-sdk-for-java-v2/">Introducing Smart Configuration Defaults in the AWS SDK for Java v2</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the SDK should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a> If you intend to use dual stack only on specific service, consider configuring dual stack through `spring.cloud.aws.<service-name>.dualstack-enabled` property.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.cluster-update-interval-millis |  | Interval between polling of cluster members for membership changes.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.connect-timeout-millis |  | Connection timeout.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.connection-ttl-millis |  | Connection time to live.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.endpoint-refresh-timeout-millis |  | Timeout for endpoint refresh.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.idle-timeout-millis |  | Timeout for idle connections with the DAX cluster.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.max-concurrency |  | Maximum number of concurrent requests.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.max-pending-connection-acquires |  | Maximum number of pending Connections to acquire.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.read-retries |  | Number of times to retry reads, initial try is not counted.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.request-timeout-millis |  | Request timeout for connections with the DAX cluster.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.skip-host-name-verification |  | Skips hostname verification in url.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.url |  | DAX cluster endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dax.write-retries |  | Number of times to retry writes, initial try is not counted.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables DynamoDb integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.table-prefix |  | The prefix used to resolve table names.
|spring.cloud.aws.dynamodb.table-suffix |  | The suffix used to resolve table names.
|spring.cloud.aws.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint for all auto-configured AWS clients.
|spring.cloud.aws.fips-enabled |  | Configure whether the SDK should use the AWS fips endpoints.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables ParameterStore integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.reload.max-wait-for-restart | `+++2s+++` | If {@link ReloadStrategy#RESTART_CONTEXT} is configured, maximum waiting time for server restart.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.reload.period | `+++1m+++` | Refresh period for {@link PollingAwsPropertySourceChangeDetector}.
|spring.cloud.aws.parameterstore.reload.strategy |  | Reload strategy to run when properties change.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.instance-profile | `+++false+++` | Configures an instance profile region provider with no further configuration.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.profile.name |  | Profile name.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.profile.path |  | Profile file path.
|spring.cloud.aws.region.static |  | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.accelerate-mode-enabled |  | Option to enable using the accelerate endpoint when accessing S3. Accelerate endpoints allow faster transfer of objects by using Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.checksum-validation-enabled |  | Option to disable doing a validation of the checksum of an object stored in S3.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.chunked-encoding-enabled |  | Option to enable using chunked encoding when signing the request payload for {@link software.amazon.awssdk.services.s3.model.PutObjectRequest} and {@link software.amazon.awssdk.services.s3.model.UploadPartRequest}.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables S3 Config File import integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.reload.max-wait-for-restart | `+++2s+++` | If {@link ReloadStrategy#RESTART_CONTEXT} is configured, maximum waiting time for server restart.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.reload.period | `+++1m+++` | Refresh period for {@link PollingAwsPropertySourceChangeDetector}.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.config.reload.strategy |  | Reload strategy to run when properties change.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.cross-region-enabled |  | Enables cross-region bucket access.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.initial-read-buffer-size-in-bytes |  | Configure the starting buffer size the client will use to buffer the parts downloaded from S3. Maintain a larger window to keep up a high download throughput; parts cannot download in parallel unless the window is large enough to hold multiple parts. Maintain a smaller window to limit the amount of data buffered in memory.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.max-concurrency |  | Specifies the maximum number of S3 connections that should be established during transfer.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.minimum-part-size-in-bytes |  | Sets the minimum part size for transfer parts. Decreasing the minimum part size causes multipart transfer to be split into a larger number of smaller parts. Setting this value too low has a negative effect on transfer speeds, causing extra latency and network communication for each part.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.crt.target-throughput-in-gbps |  | The target throughput for transfer requests. Higher value means more S3 connections will be opened. Whether the transfer manager can achieve the configured target throughput depends on various factors such as the network bandwidth of the environment and the configured `max-concurrency`.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables S3 integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.enable-delayed-authentication-mode | `+++false+++` | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.enable-legacy-unauthenticated-modes | `+++false+++` | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.enable-multipart-put-object | `+++false+++` | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.encryption.key-id |  | 
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.path-style-access-enabled |  | Option to enable using path style access for accessing S3 objects instead of DNS style access. DNS style access is preferred as it will result in better load balancing when accessing S3.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.plugin.enable-fallback | `+++false+++` | If set to false if Access Grants does not find/return permissions, S3Client won't try to determine if policies grant access If set to true fallback policies S3/IAM will be evaluated.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.transfer-manager.follow-symbolic-links |  | Specifies whether to follow symbolic links when traversing the file tree in `S3TransferManager#uploadDirectory` operation.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.transfer-manager.max-depth |  | Specifies the maximum number of levels of directories to visit in `S3TransferManager#uploadDirectory` operation.
|spring.cloud.aws.s3.use-arn-region-enabled |  | If an S3 resource ARN is passed in as the target of an S3 operation that has a different region to the one the client was configured with, this flag must be set to 'true' to permit the client to make a cross-region call to the region specified in the ARN otherwise an exception will be thrown.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables Secrets Manager integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.reload.max-wait-for-restart | `+++2s+++` | If {@link ReloadStrategy#RESTART_CONTEXT} is configured, maximum waiting time for server restart.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.reload.period | `+++1m+++` | Refresh period for {@link PollingAwsPropertySourceChangeDetector}.
|spring.cloud.aws.secretsmanager.reload.strategy |  | Reload strategy to run when properties change.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.configuration-set-name |  | Configures configuration set name.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables Simple Email Service integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.from-arn |  | Configures from ARN. Only applies to SendRawEmail operation.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.ses.source-arn |  | Configures source ARN. Used only for sending authorization.
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables SNS integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.sns.region |  | Overrides the default region.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.dualstack-enabled |  | Configure whether the AWS client should use the AWS dualstack endpoint. Note that not each AWS service supports dual-stack. For complete list check <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ipv6-support.html">AWS services that support IPv6</a>
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.enabled | `+++true+++` | Enables SQS integration.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.endpoint |  | Overrides the default endpoint.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.max-concurrent-messages |  | The maximum concurrent messages that can be processed simultaneously for each queue. Note that if acknowledgement batching is being used, the actual maximum number of messages inflight might be higher.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.max-messages-per-poll |  | The maximum number of messages to be retrieved in a single poll to SQS.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.poll-timeout |  | The maximum amount of time for a poll to SQS.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.listener.max-delay-between-polls |  | The maximum amount of time to wait between consecutive polls to SQS.
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.queue-not-found-strategy |  |
|spring.cloud.aws.sqs.region |  | Overrides the default region.

|===
